# Dual Boot Windows with Linux

***Important Note :***  
If you are using a old computer / laptop ,  it may be possible that it is using legacy mode ( BIOS mode ) for booting windows.
[ tip : learn about **BIOS , UEFI and Booting Process **from chatgpt or some other source ]
if windows is in legacy mode then linux must be installed in legacy mode and if windows is using UEFI mode then linux must be installed in UEFI mode.
[ If you are using new computer , it is most probabaly using UEFI mode for booting. and it is very easy to dual boot such laptops as compared to BIOS ( legacy mode ) laptops ]
## Step 1 Create bootable pendrive.
1. download iso file for linux-mint ( or whatever distro ) you like.
1. if you have linux system use `dd` command to make pendrive bootable
1. for simplicity you can also use `balenaEtcher` software to make pendrive  bootable.
## Step 2 Boot From Pendrive And Install
if your windows is using legacy mode then you must boot from pendrive with legacy mode ( default is UEFI mode ). 
1. switch on the laptop
1. keep pressing `esc` key.
1. choose appropriate booting option ( pendrive with UEFI or pendrive with legacy mode ( without UEFI ) 
1. use GParted tool to create partitions and make your disk bootable ( _if using legacy mode then setting boot flag for your partition when you are going to install linux is crucial _)
1. Now install linux in this newly created ext4 partition.
1. Make sure your system always boot using grub because grub gives you option to choose os unlike windows boot loader.  
## Step 3 Set up correct boot order 
1. switch on the laptop
1. press `esc` multiple times and go to bios setting.
1. configure boot  order so that system will by default boot to linux.
1. this will boot from `grub` and give you option to choose os.  

***Important note :***  

1. **Problem** : some times grub does not recognise windows installation  
    **Solution** : Make sure both of your os are using same mode ( legacy or UEFI ) 
	if yes then use below command from your linux terminal 
	```Bash
	sudo os-prober #this must list windows os 
	sudo update-grub
	```
2. **Problem** : grub is not shown so that you can choose os.   
	**Solution** : In some distros like linux-mint , grub options are hidden by  default. You can make them visible by making the changes in file `/etc/default/grub` . Dont forget to run `sudo update-grub` command once you make changes in that file.
	```
	info -f grub -n 'Simple Configuration'
	```
	you can use above command to get information about some of basic configs of grub
	make sure you have `GRUB_TIMEOUT_STYLE` set to ***menu*** and not ***hidden ***in  `/etc/default/grub` file. 
